Ayurvedic medicine has a rich history. Originally shared as an oral tradition, Ayurveda was recorded more than 5,000 years ago in Sanskrit, in the four sacred texts called the Vedas: the Rig Veda (3000-2500 BCE), Yajur Veda, Sam Veda, and Atharva Veda (1200-1000 BCE). Let us see what does it have to offer to the society today.

Who is the founder of Ayurveda?
In Sushruta Samhita (Sushruta's Compendium), Sushruta wrote that Dhanvantari, Hindu god of Ayurveda, incarnated himself as a king of Varanasi and taught medicine to a group of physicians, including Sushruta. That is where he developed the idea of the traditional medicine "Ayurveda" and educated the world. Ayurveda therapies have varied and evolved over more than two millennia.

What is Ayurveda?
Ayurveda was developed more than 3,000 years ago in India. It is based on the belief that health and wellness depend on a delicate balance between the mind, body, and spirit. According to Ayurveda, every person is made of five basic elements found in the universe: space, air, fire, water, and earth. Many people believe that its main goal is to cure diseases but its main goal is actually to promote good health.
How it offers a Nurturing Approach to Being Healthy
Ayurveda is all about understanding that being “healthy” is your natural state. If you and your environment are at equilibrium, then it is forms a balanced state, and if the opposite occurs, then it is imbalance in nature. For example, if you feel anxious or are suffering from health issues like constipation or general lethargic behavior, it is simply a matter of being out of balance.

Imbalances are not an overnight occurrence, so you do have time to prevent or slow down the process of imbalance. When you know what is causing you to feel out of balance, you can simply refer to a few exercises and particular food items in order to regain your energy.Health Benefits of Ayurveda
While Ayurveda has many health benefits related to the mind and body, some of them are listed below:

You Are Encouraged to Love Yourself
You Get a Greater Understanding of Your Place in Life
Toxins in the Body are Reduced
You Learn to Clear Up Energy
Better Health at a Cellular Level
Stronger Digestion
Reduced Stress and Greater Sense of Well-Being